# Network Pruning
[Back to awesome edge machine learning](https://github.com/bisonai/awesome-edge-machine-learning)

[Back to Papers](https://github.com/bisonai/awesome-edge-machine-learning/tree/master/Papers)

Pruning is a common method to derive a compact network – after training, some structural portion of the parameters is removed, along with its associated computations.<sup><a href="http://jankautz.com/publications/Importance4NNPruning_CVPR19.pdf" target="_blank">Importance Estimation for Neural Network Pruning</a></sup>


## [Importance Estimation for Neural Network Pruning](http://jankautz.com/publications/Importance4NNPruning_CVPR19.pdf), 2019/06
Pavlo Molchanov, Arun Mallya, Stephen Tyree, Iuri Frosio, Jan Kautz

Structural pruning of neural network parameters reduces computation, energy, and memory transfer costs during inference. We propose a novel method that estimates the contribution of a neuron (filter) to the final loss and iteratively removes those with smaller scores. We describe two variations of our method using the first and second-order Taylor expansions to approximate a filter's contribution. Both methods scale consistently across any network layer without requiring per-layer sensitivity analysis and can be applied to any kind of layer, including skip connections. For modern networks trained on ImageNet, we measured experimentally a high (>93%) correlation between the contribution computed by our methods and a reliable estimate of the true importance. Pruning with the proposed methods leads to an improvement over state-of-the-art in terms of accuracy, FLOPs, and parameter reduction. On ResNet-101, we achieve a 40% FLOPS reduction by removing 30% of the parameters, with a loss of 0.02% in the top-1 accuracy on ImageNet. Code is available at [https://github.com/NVlabs/Taylor_pruning](https://github.com/NVlabs/Taylor_pruning).


## [Centripetal SGD for Pruning Very Deep Convolutional Networks with Complicated Structure](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03837), 2019/04
Xiaohan Ding, Guiguang Ding, Yuchen Guo, Jungong Han

The redundancy is widely recognized in Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), which enables to remove unimportant filters from convolutional layers so as to slim the network with acceptable performance drop. Inspired by the linear and combinational properties of convolution, we seek to make some filters increasingly close and eventually identical for network slimming. To this end, we propose Centripetal SGD (C-SGD), a novel optimization method, which can train several filters to collapse into a single point in the parameter hyperspace. When the training is completed, the removal of the identical filters can trim the network with NO performance loss, thus no finetuning is needed. By doing so, we have partly solved an open problem of constrained filter pruning on CNNs with complicated structure, where some layers must be pruned following others. Our experimental results on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet have justified the effectiveness of C-SGD-based filter pruning. Moreover, we have provided empirical evidences for the assumption that the redundancy in deep neural networks helps the convergence of training by showing that a redundant CNN trained using C-SGD outperforms a normally trained counterpart with the equivalent width.


## [Towards Optimal Structured CNN Pruning via Generative Adversarial Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09291), 2019/03
Shaohui Lin, Rongrong Ji, Chenqian Yan, Baochang Zhang, Liujuan Cao, Qixiang Ye, Feiyue Huang, David Doermann

Structured pruning of filters or neurons has received increased focus for compressing convolutional neural networks. Most existing methods rely on multi-stage optimizations in a layer-wise manner for iteratively pruning and retraining which may not be optimal and may be computation intensive. Besides, these methods are designed for pruning a specific structure, such as filter or block structures without jointly pruning heterogeneous structures. In this paper, we propose an effective structured pruning approach that jointly prunes filters as well as other structures in an end-to-end manner. To accomplish this, we first introduce a soft mask to scale the output of these structures by defining a new objective function with sparsity regularization to align the output of baseline and network with this mask. We then effectively solve the optimization problem by generative adversarial learning (GAL), which learns a sparse soft mask in a label-free and an end-to-end manner. By forcing more scaling factors in the soft mask to zero, the fast iterative shrinkage-thresholding algorithm (FISTA) can be leveraged to fast and reliably remove the corresponding structures. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of GAL on different datasets, including MNIST, CIFAR-10 and ImageNet ILSVRC 2012. For example, on ImageNet ILSVRC 2012, the pruned ResNet-50 achieves 10.88\% Top-5 error and results in a factor of 3.7x speedup. This significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods.


## [Variational Convolutional Neural Network Pruning](http://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/papers/Zhao_Variational_Convolutional_Neural_Network_Pruning_CVPR_2019_paper.pdf), 2019/01
Chenglong Zhao, Bingbing Ni, Jian Zhang, Qiwei Zhao, Wenjun Zhang, Qi Tian

We propose a variational Bayesian scheme for pruningconvolutional neural networks in channel level. This idea ismotivated by the fact that deterministic value based pruningmethods are inherently improper and unstable. In a nut-shell, variational technique is introduced to estimate dis-tribution of a newly proposed parameter, called channelsaliency, based on this, redundant channels can be removedfrom model via a simple criterion.  The advantages aretwo-fold: 1) Our method conducts channel pruning with-out desire of re-training stage, thus improving the compu-tation efficiency. 2) Our method is implemented as a stand-alone module, called variational pruning layer, which canbe straightforwardly inserted into off-the-shelf deep learn-ing packages, without any special network design. Exten-sive experimental results well demonstrate the effectivenessof our method: For CIFAR-10, we perform channel removalon different CNN models up to 74% reduction, which resultsin significant size reduction and computation saving. ForImageNet, about 40% channels of ResNet-50 are removedwithout compromising accuracy.


## [On Implicit Filter Level Sparsity in Convolutional Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.12495), 2018/11
Dushyant Mehta, Kwang In Kim, Christian Theobalt

We investigate filter level sparsity that emerges in convolutional neural networks (CNNs) which employ Batch Normalization and ReLU activation, and are trained with adaptive gradient descent techniques and L2 regularization or weight decay. We conduct an extensive experimental study casting our initial findings into hypotheses and conclusions about the mechanisms underlying the emergent filter level sparsity. This study allows new insight into the performance gap obeserved between adapative and non-adaptive gradient descent methods in practice. Further, analysis of the effect of training strategies and hyperparameters on the sparsity leads to practical suggestions in designing CNN training strategies enabling us to explore the tradeoffs between feature selectivity, network capacity, and generalization performance. Lastly, we show that the implicit sparsity can be harnessed for neural network speedup at par or better than explicit sparsification / pruning approaches, with no modifications to the typical training pipeline required.


## [Structured Pruning of Neural Networks with Budget-Aware Regularization](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.09332), 2018/11
Carl Lemaire, Andrew Achkar, Pierre-Marc Jodoin

Pruning methods have shown to be effective at reducing the size of deep neural networks while keeping accuracy almost intact. Among the most effective methods are those that prune a network while training it with a sparsity prior loss and learnable dropout parameters. A shortcoming of these approaches however is that neither the size nor the inference speed of the pruned network can be controlled directly; yet this is a key feature for targeting deployment of CNNs on low-power hardware. To overcome this, we introduce a budgeted regularized pruning framework for deep convolutional neural networks. Our approach naturally fits into traditional neural network training as it consists of a learnable masking layer, a novel budget-aware objective function, and the use of knowledge distillation. We also provide insights on how to prune a residual network and how this can lead to new architectures. Experimental results reveal that CNNs pruned with our method are more accurate and less compute-hungry than state-of-the-art methods. Also, our approach is more effective at preventing accuracy collapse in case of severe pruning; this allows us to attain pruning factors up to 16x without significantly affecting the accuracy.


## [Filter Pruning via Geometric Median for Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Acceleration](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.00250), 2018/11
Yang He, Ping Liu, Ziwei Wang, Zhilan Hu, Yi Yang

Previous works utilized "smaller-norm-less-important" criterion to prune filters with smaller norm values in a convolutional neural network. In this paper, we analyze this norm-based criterion and point out that its effectiveness depends on two requirements that are not always met: (1) the norm deviation of the filters should be large; (2) the minimum norm of the filters should be small. To solve this problem, we propose a novel filter pruning method, namely Filter Pruning via Geometric Median (FPGM), to compress the model regardless of those two requirements. Unlike previous methods, FPGM compresses CNN models by pruning filters with redundancy, rather than those with "relatively less" importance. When applied to two image classification benchmarks, our method validates its usefulness and strengths. Notably, on CIFAR-10, FPGM reduces more than 52% FLOPs on ResNet-110 with even 2.69% relative accuracy improvement. Moreover, on ILSVRC-2012, FPGM reduces more than 42% FLOPs on ResNet-101 without top-5 accuracy drop, which has advanced the state-of-the-art. Code is publicly available on [GitHub](https://github.com/he-y/filter-pruning-geometric-median).


## [Discrimination-aware Channel Pruning for Deep Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11809), 2018/10
Zhuangwei Zhuang, Mingkui Tan, Bohan Zhuang, Jing Liu, Yong Guo, Qingyao Wu, Junzhou Huang, Jinhui Zhu

Channel pruning is one of the predominant approaches for deep model compression. Existing pruning methods either train from scratch with sparsity constraints on channels, or minimize the reconstruction error between the pre-trained feature maps and the compressed ones. Both strategies suffer from some limitations: the former kind is computationally expensive and difficult to converge, whilst the latter kind optimizes the reconstruction error but ignores the discriminative power of channels. To overcome these drawbacks, we investigate a simple-yet-effective method, called discrimination-aware channel pruning, to choose those channels that really contribute to discriminative power. To this end, we introduce additional losses into the network to increase the discriminative power of intermediate layers and then select the most discriminative channels for each layer by considering the additional loss and the reconstruction error. Last, we propose a greedy algorithm to conduct channel selection and parameter optimization in an iterative way. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. For example, on ILSVRC-12, our pruned ResNet-50 with 30% reduction of channels even outperforms the original model by 0.39% in top-1 accuracy.


## [The Lottery Ticket Hypothesis: Finding Sparse, Trainable Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.03635), 2018/03
Jonathan Frankle, Michael Carbin

Neural network pruning techniques can reduce the parameter counts of trained networks by over 90%, decreasing storage requirements and improving computational performance of inference without compromising accuracy. However, contemporary experience is that the sparse architectures produced by pruning are difficult to train from the start, which would similarly improve training performance. We find that a standard pruning technique naturally uncovers subnetworks whose initializations made them capable of training effectively. Based on these results, we articulate the "lottery ticket hypothesis:" dense, randomly-initialized, feed-forward networks contain subnetworks ("winning tickets") that - when trained in isolation - reach test accuracy comparable to the original network in a similar number of iterations. The winning tickets we find have won the initialization lottery: their connections have initial weights that make training particularly effective. We present an algorithm to identify winning tickets and a series of experiments that support the lottery ticket hypothesis and the importance of these fortuitous initializations. We consistently find winning tickets that are less than 10-20% of the size of several fully-connected and convolutional feed-forward architectures for MNIST and CIFAR10. Above this size, the winning tickets that we find learn faster than the original network and reach higher test accuracy.


## [To prune, or not to prune: exploring the efficacy of pruning for model compression](https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01878), 2017/10
Michael Zhu, Suyog Gupta

Model pruning seeks to induce sparsity in a deep neural network's various connection matrices, thereby reducing the number of nonzero-valued parameters in the model. Recent reports (Han et al., 2015; Narang et al., 2017) prune deep networks at the cost of only a marginal loss in accuracy and achieve a sizable reduction in model size. This hints at the possibility that the baseline models in these experiments are perhaps severely over-parameterized at the outset and a viable alternative for model compression might be to simply reduce the number of hidden units while maintaining the model's dense connection structure, exposing a similar trade-off in model size and accuracy. We investigate these two distinct paths for model compression within the context of energy-efficient inference in resource-constrained environments and propose a new gradual pruning technique that is simple and straightforward to apply across a variety of models/datasets with minimal tuning and can be seamlessly incorporated within the training process. We compare the accuracy of large, but pruned models (large-sparse) and their smaller, but dense (small-dense) counterparts with identical memory footprint. Across a broad range of neural network architectures (deep CNNs, stacked LSTM, and seq2seq LSTM models), we find large-sparse models to consistently outperform small-dense models and achieve up to 10x reduction in number of non-zero parameters with minimal loss in accuracy.


## [Channel Pruning for Accelerating Very Deep Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06168), 2017/07
Yihui He, Xiangyu Zhang, Jian Sun

In this paper, we introduce a new channel pruning method to accelerate very deep convolutional neural networks.Given a trained CNN model, we propose an iterative two-step algorithm to effectively prune each layer, by a LASSO regression based channel selection and least square reconstruction. We further generalize this algorithm to multi-layer and multi-branch cases. Our method reduces the accumulated error and enhance the compatibility with various architectures. Our pruned VGG-16 achieves the state-of-the-art results by 5x speed-up along with only 0.3% increase of error. More importantly, our method is able to accelerate modern networks like ResNet, Xception and suffers only 1.4%, 1.0% accuracy loss under 2x speed-up respectively, which is significant. Code has been made publicly available.


