# Quantization
[Back to awesome edge machine learning](https://github.com/bisonai/awesome-edge-machine-learning)

[Back to Papers](https://github.com/bisonai/awesome-edge-machine-learning/tree/master/Papers)

Quantization is the process of reducing a precision (from 32 bit floating point into lower bit depth representations) of weights and/or activations in a neural network. The advantages of this method are reduced model size and faster model inference on hardware that support arithmetic operations in lower precision.


## [And the Bit Goes Down: Revisiting the Quantization of Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05686), 2019/07
Pierre Stock, Armand Joulin, Rémi Gribonval, Benjamin Graham, Hervé Jégou

In this paper, we address the problem of reducing the memory footprint of ResNet-like convolutional network architectures. We introduce a vector quantization method that aims at preserving the quality of the reconstruction of the network outputs and not its weights. The advantage of our approach is that it minimizes the loss reconstruction error for in-domain inputs and does not require any labelled data. We also use byte-aligned codebooks to produce compressed networks with efficient inference on CPU. We validate our approach by quantizing a high performing ResNet-50 model to a memory size of 5 MB (20x compression factor) while preserving a top-1 accuracy of 76.1% on ImageNet object classification and by compressing a Mask R-CNN with a size budget around 6 MB.


## [Data-Free Quantization through Weight Equalization and Bias Correction](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.04721), 2019/06
Markus Nagel, Mart van Baalen, Tijmen Blankevoort, Max Welling

We introduce a data-free quantization method for deep neural networks that does not require fine-tuning or hyperparameter selection. It achieves near-original model performance on common computer vision architectures and tasks. 8-bit fixed-point quantization is essential for efficient inference in modern deep learning hardware architectures. However, quantizing models to run in 8-bit is a non-trivial task, frequently leading to either significant performance reduction or engineering time spent on training a network to be amenable to quantization. Our approach relies on equalizing the weight ranges in the network by making use of a scale-equivariance property of activation functions. In addition the method corrects biases in the error that are introduced during quantization. This improves quantization accuracy performance, and can be applied ubiquitously to almost any model with a straight-forward API call. For common architectures, such as the MobileNet family, we achieve state-of-the-art quantized model performance. We further show that the method also extends to other computer vision architectures and tasks such as semantic segmentation and object detection.


## [HAQ: Hardware-Aware Automated Quantization with Mixed Precision](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.08886), 2018/11
Kuan Wang, Zhijian Liu, Yujun Lin, Ji Lin, Song Han

Model quantization is a widely used technique to compress and accelerate deep neural network (DNN) inference. Emergent DNN hardware accelerators begin to support mixed precision (1-8 bits) to further improve the computation efficiency, which raises a great challenge to find the optimal bitwidth for each layer: it requires domain experts to explore the vast design space trading off among accuracy, latency, energy, and model size, which is both time-consuming and sub-optimal. Conventional quantization algorithm ignores the different hardware architectures and quantizes all the layers in a uniform way. In this paper, we introduce the Hardware-Aware Automated Quantization (HAQ) framework which leverages the reinforcement learning to automatically determine the quantization policy, and we take the hardware accelerator's feedback in the design loop. Rather than relying on proxy signals such as FLOPs and model size, we employ a hardware simulator to generate direct feedback signals (latency and energy) to the RL agent. Compared with conventional methods, our framework is fully automated and can specialize the quantization policy for different neural network architectures and hardware architectures. Our framework effectively reduced the latency by 1.4-1.95x and the energy consumption by 1.9x with negligible loss of accuracy compared with the fixed bitwidth (8 bits) quantization. Our framework reveals that the optimal policies on different hardware architectures (i.e., edge and cloud architectures) under different resource constraints (i.e., latency, energy and model size) are drastically different. We interpreted the implication of different quantization policies, which offer insights for both neural network architecture design and hardware architecture design.


## [Quantizing deep convolutional networks for efficient inference: A whitepaper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.08342), 2018/06
Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi

We present an overview of techniques for quantizing convolutional neural networks for inference with integer weights and activations. Per-channel quantization of weights and per-layer quantization of activations to 8-bits of precision post-training produces classification accuracies within 2% of floating point networks for a wide variety of CNN architectures. Model sizes can be reduced by a factor of 4 by quantizing weights to 8-bits, even when 8-bit arithmetic is not supported. This can be achieved with simple, post training quantization of weights.We benchmark latencies of quantized networks on CPUs and DSPs and observe a speedup of 2x-3x for quantized implementations compared to floating point on CPUs. Speedups of up to 10x are observed on specialized processors with fixed point SIMD capabilities, like the Qualcomm QDSPs with HVX. Quantization-aware training can provide further improvements, reducing the gap to floating point to 1% at 8-bit precision. Quantization-aware training also allows for reducing the precision of weights to four bits with accuracy losses ranging from 2% to 10%, with higher accuracy drop for smaller networks.We introduce tools in TensorFlow and TensorFlowLite for quantizing convolutional networks and review best practices for quantization-aware training to obtain high accuracy with quantized weights and activations. We recommend that per-channel quantization of weights and per-layer quantization of activations be the preferred quantization scheme for hardware acceleration and kernel optimization. We also propose that future processors and hardware accelerators for optimized inference support precisions of 4, 8 and 16 bits.


## [A Quantization-Friendly Separable Convolution for MobileNets](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.08607), 2018/03
Tao Sheng, Chen Feng, Shaojie Zhuo, Xiaopeng Zhang, Liang Shen, Mickey Aleksic

As deep learning (DL) is being rapidly pushed to edge computing, researchers invented various ways to make inference computation more efficient on mobile/IoT devices, such as network pruning, parameter compression, and etc. Quantization, as one of the key approaches, can effectively offload GPU, and make it possible to deploy DL on fixed-point pipeline. Unfortunately, not all existing networks design are friendly to quantization. For example, the popular lightweight MobileNetV1, while it successfully reduces parameter size and computation latency with separable convolution, our experiment shows its quantized models have large accuracy gap against its float point models. To resolve this, we analyzed the root cause of quantization loss and proposed a quantization-friendly separable convolution architecture. By evaluating the image classification task on ImageNet2012 dataset, our modified MobileNetV1 model can archive 8-bit inference top-1 accuracy in 68.03%, almost closed the gap to the float pipeline.


## [Quantization and Training of Neural Networks for Efficient Integer-Arithmetic-Only Inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.05877), 2017/11
Benoit Jacob, Skirmantas Kligys, Bo Chen, Menglong Zhu, Matthew Tang, Andrew Howard, Hartwig Adam, Dmitry Kalenichenko

The rising popularity of intelligent mobile devices and the daunting computational cost of deep learning-based models call for efficient and accurate on-device inference schemes. We propose a quantization scheme that allows inference to be carried out using integer-only arithmetic, which can be implemented more efficiently than floating point inference on commonly available integer-only hardware. We also co-design a training procedure to preserve end-to-end model accuracy post quantization. As a result, the proposed quantization scheme improves the tradeoff between accuracy and on-device latency. The improvements are significant even on MobileNets, a model family known for run-time efficiency, and are demonstrated in ImageNet classification and COCO detection on popular CPUs.


## [Quantized Neural Networks: Training Neural Networks with Low Precision Weights and Activations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.07061), 2016/09
Itay Hubara, Matthieu Courbariaux, Daniel Soudry, Ran El-Yaniv, Yoshua Bengio

We introduce a method to train Quantized Neural Networks (QNNs) --- neural networks with extremely low precision (e.g., 1-bit) weights and activations, at run-time. At train-time the quantized weights and activations are used for computing the parameter gradients. During the forward pass, QNNs drastically reduce memory size and accesses, and replace most arithmetic operations with bit-wise operations. As a result, power consumption is expected to be drastically reduced. We trained QNNs over the MNIST, CIFAR-10, SVHN and ImageNet datasets. The resulting QNNs achieve prediction accuracy comparable to their 32-bit counterparts. For example, our quantized version of AlexNet with 1-bit weights and 2-bit activations achieves 51% top-1 accuracy. Moreover, we quantize the parameter gradients to 6-bits as well which enables gradients computation using only bit-wise operation. Quantized recurrent neural networks were tested over the Penn Treebank dataset, and achieved comparable accuracy as their 32-bit counterparts using only 4-bits. Last but not least, we programmed a binary matrix multiplication GPU kernel with which it is possible to run our MNIST QNN 7 times faster than with an unoptimized GPU kernel, without suffering any loss in classification accuracy. The QNN code is available online.


## [DoReFa-Net: Training Low Bitwidth Convolutional Neural Networks with Low Bitwidth Gradients](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.06160), 2016/06
Shuchang Zhou, Yuxin Wu, Zekun Ni, Xinyu Zhou, He Wen, Yuheng Zou

We propose DoReFa-Net, a method to train convolutional neural networks that have low bitwidth weights and activations using low bitwidth parameter gradients. In particular, during backward pass, parameter gradients are stochastically quantized to low bitwidth numbers before being propagated to convolutional layers. As convolutions during forward/backward passes can now operate on low bitwidth weights and activations/gradients respectively, DoReFa-Net can use bit convolution kernels to accelerate both training and inference. Moreover, as bit convolutions can be efficiently implemented on CPU, FPGA, ASIC and GPU, DoReFa-Net opens the way to accelerate training of low bitwidth neural network on these hardware. Our experiments on SVHN and ImageNet datasets prove that DoReFa-Net can achieve comparable prediction accuracy as 32-bit counterparts. For example, a DoReFa-Net derived from AlexNet that has 1-bit weights, 2-bit activations, can be trained from scratch using 6-bit gradients to get 46.1\% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet validation set. The DoReFa-Net AlexNet model is released publicly.


## [Quantized Convolutional Neural Networks for Mobile Devices](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.06473), 2015/12
Jiaxiang Wu, Cong Leng, Yuhang Wang, Qinghao Hu, Jian Cheng

Recently, convolutional neural networks (CNN) have demonstrated impressive performance in various computer vision tasks. However, high performance hardware is typically indispensable for the application of CNN models due to the high computation complexity, which prohibits their further extensions. In this paper, we propose an efficient framework, namely Quantized CNN, to simultaneously speed-up the computation and reduce the storage and memory overhead of CNN models. Both filter kernels in convolutional layers and weighting matrices in fully-connected layers are quantized, aiming at minimizing the estimation error of each layer's response. Extensive experiments on the ILSVRC-12 benchmark demonstrate 4~6x speed-up and 15~20x compression with merely one percentage loss of classification accuracy. With our quantized CNN model, even mobile devices can accurately classify images within one second.


