# Applications
[Back to awesome edge machine learning](https://github.com/bisonai/awesome-edge-machine-learning)

[Back to Papers](https://github.com/bisonai/awesome-edge-machine-learning/tree/master/Papers)

There is a countless number of possible edge machine learning applications. Here, we collect papers that describe specific solutions.


## [ALBERT: A Lite BERT for Self-supervised Learning of Language Representations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.11942), 2019/09
Zhenzhong Lan, Mingda Chen, Sebastian Goodman, Kevin Gimpel, Piyush Sharma, Radu Soricut

Increasing model size when pretraining natural language representations often results in improved performance on downstream tasks. However, at some point further model increases become harder due to GPU/TPU memory limitations, longer training times, and unexpected model degradation. To address these problems, we present two parameter-reduction techniques to lower memory consumption and increase the training speed of BERT. Comprehensive empirical evidence shows that our proposed methods lead to models that scale much better compared to the original BERT. We also use a self-supervised loss that focuses on modeling inter-sentence coherence, and show it consistently helps downstream tasks with multi-sentence inputs. As a result, our best model establishes new state-of-the-art results on the GLUE, RACE, and SQuAD benchmarks while having fewer parameters compared to BERT-large.The code and the pretrained models are available at this [URL](https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/albert).


## [TinyBERT: Distilling BERT for Natural Language Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.10351), 2019/09
Xiaoqi Jiao, Yichun Yin, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, Xiao Chen, Linlin Li, Fang Wang, Qun Liu

Language model pre-training, such as BERT, has significantly improved the performances of many natural language processing tasks. However, pre-trained language models are usually computationally expensive and memory intensive, so it is difficult to effectively execute them on some resource-restricted devices. To accelerate inference and reduce model size while maintaining accuracy, we firstly propose a novel transformer distillation method that is a specially designed knowledge distillation (KD) method for transformer-based models. By leveraging this new KD method, the plenty of knowledge encoded in a large teacher BERT can be well transferred to a small student TinyBERT. Moreover, we introduce a new two-stage learning framework for TinyBERT, which performs transformer distillation at both the pre-training and task-specific learning stages. This framework ensures that TinyBERT can capture both the general-domain and task-specific knowledge of the teacher BERT.TinyBERT is empirically effective and achieves more than 96% the performance of teacher BERTBASE on GLUE benchmark while being 7.5x smaller and 9.4x faster on inference. TinyBERT is also significantly better than state-of-the-art baselines on BERT distillation, with only about 28% parameters and about 31% inference time of them.


## [Temporal Convolution for Real-time Keyword Spotting on Mobile Devices](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03814), 2019/04
Seungwoo Choi, Seokjun Seo, Beomjun Shin, Hyeongmin Byun, Martin Kersner, Beomsu Kim, Dongyoung Kim, Sungjoo Ha

Keyword spotting (KWS) plays a critical role in enabling speech-based user interactions on smart devices. Recent developments in the field of deep learning have led to wide adoption of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) in KWS systems due to their exceptional accuracy and robustness. The main challenge faced by KWS systems is the trade-off between high accuracy and low latency. Unfortunately, there has been little quantitative analysis of the actual latency of KWS models on mobile devices. This is especially concerning since conventional convolution-based KWS approaches are known to require a large number of operations to attain an adequate level of performance. In this paper, we propose a temporal convolution for real-time KWS on mobile devices. Unlike most of the 2D convolution-based KWS approaches that require a deep architecture to fully capture both low- and high-frequency domains, we exploit temporal convolutions with a compact ResNet architecture. In Google Speech Command Dataset, we achieve more than 385x speedup on Google Pixel 1 and surpass the accuracy compared to the state-of-the-art model. In addition, we release the implementation of the proposed and the baseline models including an end-to-end pipeline for training models and evaluating them on mobile devices.


## [Towards Real-Time Automatic Portrait Matting on Mobile Devices](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03816), 2019/04
Seokjun Seo, Seungwoo Choi, Martin Kersner, Beomjun Shin, Hyungsuk Yoon, Hyeongmin Byun, Sungjoo Ha

We tackle the problem of automatic portrait matting on mobile devices. The proposed model is aimed at attaining real-time inference on mobile devices with minimal degradation of model performance. Our model MMNet, based on multi-branch dilated convolution with linear bottleneck blocks, outperforms the state-of-the-art model and is orders of magnitude faster. The model can be accelerated four times to attain 30 FPS on Xiaomi Mi 5 device with moderate increase in the gradient error. Under the same conditions, our model has an order of magnitude less number of parameters and is faster than Mobile DeepLabv3 while maintaining comparable performance. The accompanied implementation can be found at this [URL](https://github.com/hyperconnect/MMNet).

## [ThunderNet: Towards Real-time Generic Object Detection](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11752), 2019/03
Zheng Qin, Zeming Li, Zhaoning Zhang, Yiping Bao, Gang Yu, Yuxing Peng, Jian Sun

Real-time generic object detection on mobile platforms is a crucial but challenging computer vision task. However, previous CNN-based detectors suffer from enormous computational cost, which hinders them from real-time inference in computation-constrained scenarios. In this paper, we investigate the effectiveness of two-stage detectors in real-time generic detection and propose a lightweight two-stage detector named ThunderNet. In the backbone part, we analyze the drawbacks in previous lightweight backbones and present a lightweight backbone designed for object detection. In the detection part, we exploit an extremely efficient RPN and detection head design. To generate more discriminative feature representation, we design two efficient architecture blocks, Context Enhancement Module and Spatial Attention Module. At last, we investigate the balance between the input resolution, the backbone, and the detection head. Compared with lightweight one-stage detectors, ThunderNet achieves superior performance with only 40% of the computational cost on PASCAL VOC and COCO benchmarks. Without bells and whistles, our model runs at 24.1 fps on an ARM-based device. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first real-time detector reported on ARM platforms. Code will be released for paper reproduction.


## [PFLD: A Practical Facial Landmark Detector](https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10859), 2019/02
Xiaojie Guo, Siyuan Li, Jinke Yu, Jiawan Zhang, Jiayi Ma, Lin Ma, Wei Liu, Haibin Ling

Being accurate, efficient, and compact is essential to a facial landmark detector for practical use. To simultaneously consider the three concerns, this paper investigates a neat model with promising detection accuracy under wild environments e.g., unconstrained pose, expression, lighting, and occlusion conditions) and super real-time speed on a mobile device. More concretely, we customize an end-to-end single stage network associated with acceleration techniques. During the training phase, for each sample, rotation information is estimated for geometrically regularizing landmark localization, which is then NOT involved in the testing phase. A novel loss is designed to, besides considering the geometrical regularization, mitigate the issue of data imbalance by adjusting weights of samples to different states, such as large pose, extreme lighting, and occlusion, in the training set. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate the efficacy of our design and reveal its superior performance over state-of-the-art alternatives on widely-adopted challenging benchmarks, i.e., 300W (including iBUG, LFPW, AFW, HELEN, and XM2VTS) and AFLW. Our model can be merely 2.1Mb of size and reach over 140 fps per face on a mobile phone (Qualcomm ARM 845 processor) with high precision, making it attractive for large-scale or real-time applications. We have made our practical system based on PFLD 0.25X model publicly available at this [URL](http://sites.google.com/view/xjguo/fld) for encouraging comparisons and improvements from the community.


## [TSM: Temporal Shift Module for Efficient Video Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.08383), 2018/11
Ji Lin, Chuang Gan, Song Han

The explosive growth in video streaming gives rise to challenges on performing video understanding at high accuracy and low computation cost. Conventional 2D CNNs are computationally cheap but cannot capture temporal relationships; 3D CNN based methods can achieve good performance but are computationally intensive, making it expensive to deploy. In this paper, we propose a generic and effective Temporal Shift Module (TSM) that enjoys both high efficiency and high performance. Specifically, it can achieve the performance of 3D CNN but maintain 2D CNN's complexity. TSM shifts part of the channels along the temporal dimension; thus facilitate information exchanged among neighboring frames. It can be inserted into 2D CNNs to achieve temporal modeling at zero computation and zero parameters. We also extended TSM to online setting, which enables real-time low-latency online video recognition and video object detection. TSM is accurate and efficient: it ranks the first place on the Something-Something leaderboard upon publication; on Jetson Nano and Galaxy Note8, it achieves a low latency of 13ms and 35ms for online video recognition. The code is available at: this https URL.


